{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fnil\fcharset0 AndaleMono;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c0\c0\c0;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Rania Maaraba \'97 Critical Thinking\
\
In light of recent development in AI technology, the OII (Oxford Institute of Technology) appointed Professor Brent Mittelstadt as the Director of Research to make light of a new project called the Truth worthiness Auditing for AI. Mittelstadt had previously published works on the ethics of AI and Big Data, and this was the next step. In his article published in 2017, \'93From Individual to Group Privacy in Big Data Analytics,\'94 Mittelstadt explains how your collected data can be used to \'93algorithmically assembled group to be formed that does not necessarily align with classes or attributes already protected by privacy and anti-discrimination law or addressed in fairness\'85\'94 He also explains how the collection of your data can then be used to place you in a group that could then be manipulated without your knowledge against you in actions far deeper than just add suggestions but what your pay for health insurance could be based on your gathered ethnicity, income, and other factors. \'93Algorithmic classification can be considered a privacy invasive practice,\'94 Mittelstadt states, \'93it is not yet sufficiently regulated due to prevailing regulatory focus on identifiable individuals.\'94 Mittelstadt has won several awards for his papers, one recognisable one is the 2019 Best Paper Award received from the Privacy Law Scholars Conference as well as an O2RB Excellence in Impact Awards. Mittelstadt continues to be at the forefront of data ethics at OII and among the field with his current project. \
\
Works Cited:\
\pard\pardeftab720\li755\fi-756\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
\outl0\strokewidth0 \strokec2 Mittelstadt, B. (2017, February 11). From individual to group privacy in Big Data Analytics - Philosophy & Technology. SpringerLink. {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13347-017-0253-7#citeas"}}{\fldrslt https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s13347-017-0253-7#citeas}} \
\pard\pardeftab720\li755\fi-756\sa240\partightenfactor0
\cf0 OII: Professor Brent Mittelstadt. Oxford Internet Institute Brent Mittelstadt Comments. (n.d.). {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/profiles/brent-mittelstadt/"}}{\fldrslt https://www.oii.ox.ac.uk/people/profiles/brent-mittelstadt/}}\
\pard\pardeftab720\partightenfactor0
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\sa240\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf0 \
}